
# Effective Bug Reporting

**Please note that the bug tracker does not accept reports on account or
character issues that are unrelated to the server's development. You should open
a ticket in game and wait for the response of a gamemaster. They may redirect
you to this bug tracker if they believe there's a server issue that they cannot
help you with.**

Before opening any issues on the bug tracker, use the search feature to locate
any potential duplicates or related issues. If you find any matches, update the
existing issue if you have additional relevant information that could help the
developers in resolving the bug.

If you didn't find any duplicate reports, the next step is to try to do some
research to confirm that the current behaviour is incorrect. We receive a number
of false reports that could be have been avoided if the user had used the
sources below to confirm that a problem existed before opening a bug report.

## Sources

Any links that you can provide that demonstrate that the information in your bug
report is accurate will go a long way to helping the developers fix the
problem. Although finding data from over a decade ago can be tricky, there are
still avenues that are worth exploring.

* The official patch notes are usually the first port of call for finding
  evidence of game mechanic and item changes. However, many changes will not be
  documented.

* Through searching, you can often find lists of unofficial patch notes that
  document changes that were not detailed in the official notes.

* Using relevant keywords in Google while restricting the time range will often
  find old, useful forum posts that describe mechanics/boss strategies.

* YouTube and Warcraftmovies can be a good source of old gameplay recordings.

* Make good use of the Internet Archive's Wayback Machine to browse older data
  mining website such as Thottbot and Allakhazam. You may also be able to find
  some content on archived versions of ElitistJerks.

* WoW BlueTracker (http://blue.cardplace.com/search.html) contains a wealth of
  older blue posts that can often be useful for finding evidence of various
  minor changes and mechanic hotfixes.

* Wikis can be a good source of information if all else fails. Try looking
  through the edit history of relevant articles to find evidence.

In general, private servers and forums posts from their communities are not
considered to be a reliable source of information.

## Opening a report

Having done the above, if you have a new bug to report, please ensure that you
include the following information at a minimum:

* A clear, concise description of the current behaviour.

* A description of the expected behaviour.

* Where applicable, provide relevant sources that show or describe the correct
  behaviour.
  
# Issue Template

First of all, thank you for taking the time to report this issue: 
https://github.com/BalkanWoW/bug-tracker/issues/new

Please note that the bug tracker does not accept reports on account or character
issues that are unrelated to the server's development. You should open a ticket
in game and wait for the response of a gamemaster. They may redirect you to this
bug tracker if they believe there's a server issue that they cannot help you
with.

Before writing your report, please do read and consider the following points to
increase the quality of your report.

- Search the issue tracker for open and closed issues before opening a new
  issue. You may be able to contribute additional facts by commenting on
  existing issues instead of adding extra noise in a separate issue.

- http://www.wowhead.com and http://db.vanillagaming.org are not valid sources
  for quests, items etc., instead, please use archived versions of
  http://wow.allakhazam.com or http://www.thottbot.com through
  https://archive.org/.

- Validate the date and time of the archived sources to a certain patch. The
  patch release dates can be found on the corresponding WoWWiki article, as
  found at http://wowwiki.wikia.com/wiki/Category:World_of_Warcraft_patches.

- Videos are valid if and only if the footage contains a timestamp or
  information that confirms the time it was recorded. Date of upload is NOT
  valid and does not confirm when it was shot.

Thank you!
